[Doc] Add export_result section on how to export images and videos (#1151)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/export_results.rst

> Export Your Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Export your results
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Exporting results
```

===================

> Taichi has some functions that can help you to **export results to images or videos**. This tutorial will tell you how to do that step by step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taichi has functions that help you **export visual results to images or videos**. This tutorial demonstrates how to use them step by step.
```

> Please make sure that your program runs well before reading this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Export Images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Export images
```

-------------

- There are 2 common ways to export the result of your program (presumably a Taichi tensor) to images. The first one working with ti.GUI that it is more friendly to begginers. 

> - The second approach is to call some built-in functions in Taichi to make things done, which is more flexible and harder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The second way is to call some Taichi functions such as ``ti.imwrite``.
```

Export images using ``ti.GUI.show``
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- ``ti.GUI.show(filename)`` can not only display the GUI canvas on your screen, but also save the image to your specified ``filename``.
- Note that the format of the image is fully determined by the suffix of ``filename``.
- Taichi now supports saving to ``png``, ``jpg``, and ``bmp`` formats.
- We recommend using ``png`` format. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import taichi as ti
    import os

    ti.init()

>     pixels = ti.var(ti.u8, shape=(512, 512, 3))

Reviewer 2: Should we inform that all `ti.f32, ti.f64, ti.u8, ti.u16, ti.u32, ti.u64` is available? People like to store image in `ti.f32` very much, which is supported by most platforms.

    @ti.kernel
    def paint():
        for i, j, k in pixels:
            pixels[i, j, k] = ti.random() * 255

    iterations = 1000
    gui = ti.GUI("Random pixels", res=512)

    # mainloop
    for i in range(iterations):
        paint()
        gui.set_image(pixels)

        filename = f'frame_{i:05d}.png'   # create filename with suffix png
        print(f'Frame {i} is recorded in {filename}')
        gui.show(filename)  # export and show in GUI

- After running the code above, you will get a series of images in the current folder.

Export images using ``ti.imwrite``
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To save images without creating a ``ti.GUI``, use ``ti.imwrite``. For example:

    .. code-block:: python

        import taichi as ti

        ti.init()

>         pixels = ti.var(ti.u8, shape=(512, 512, 3))

Reviewer 2: Can we inform that both `ti.var, ti.Vector` is available? And all `shape[2] in [1, 3, 4]` is available?

> Export Images by Taichi built-ins
> +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Export images using ``ti.imwrite``
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```

Export Videos
-------------

.. note::
    
    Taichi utils for exporting videos are dependent on ffmpeg. If ffmpeg hasn't been installed properly on your device, please follow the installation instructions of ffmpeg at the end of this document.

- **ti.VideoManger** can help you to export results in .mp4 or .git format. For example

.. code-block:: python

    import taichi as ti

    ti.init()

    pixel = ti.var(ti.u8, shape=(512, 512, 3))

    @ti.kernel
    def paint():
        for i, j, k in pixel:
            pixel[i, j, k] = ti.random() * 255

    result_dir = "./results"
    video_manger = ti.VideoManager(output_dir=result_dir, framerate=24, automatic_build=False)

    for i in range(50):
        paint()

        pixel_img = pixel.to_numpy()
        video_manger.write_frame(pixel_img)
        print(f"\rFrame {i+1}/50 is recorded", end='')

    print("\nBegin to export .mp4 and .gif videos ...")
    video_manger.make_video(gif = True, mp4 = True)
    print("Mp4 video is saved to %s" % video_manger.get_output_filename(".mp4"))
    print("Gif video is saved to %s" % video_manger.get_output_filename(".gif"))
    

> Running these codes above, you can find the resulting video in "./results/" folder :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the code above, you will find the output videos in the ``./results/`` folder.
```

Install ffmpeg
--------------

Install ffmpeg on Windows
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

- Download the ffmpeg archive(named ffmpeg-2020xxx.zip) from `ffmpeg <https://ffmpeg.org/download.html>`_

- unzip this archive to where you would like, such as "D:/YOUR_FFMPEG_FOLDER"

> - IMPORTANT: **add "D:/YOUR_FFMPEG_FOLDER/bin" to the environment variables**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Important:** add ``D:/YOUR_FFMPEG_FOLDER/bin`` to the ``PATH`` environment variable;
```

> - open the Windows CLI and type this line of code below to test the installation. The version info should be output if ffmpeg is set up properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Open the Windows ``cmd`` or ``PowerShell`` and type the line of code below to test your installation. If ``ffmpeg`` is set up properly, the version information will be printed. 
```

.. code-block:: shell

>     FFmpeg -version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ffmpeg -version
```

> Install FFmpeg on Linux
> +++++++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install ``ffmpeg`` on Linux
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```

> - Most Linux distribution came with ``ffmpeg`` natively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Most Linux distribution came with ``ffmpeg`` natively, so you do not need to read this part if the ``ffmpeg`` command is already there on your machine.
```

> - Install ffmpeg on Ubuntu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install ``ffmpeg`` on Ubuntu
```

.. code-block:: shell

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install ffmpeg

> - Install ffmpeg on CenteOS and RHEL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install ``ffmpeg`` on CentOS and RHEL
```

.. code-block:: shell

    sudo yum install ffmpeg ffmpeg-devel

> - Install ffmpeg on Arch Linux:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install ``ffmpeg`` on Arch Linux:
```

.. code-block: shell

    sudo pacman -S ffmpeg

> - test your installation by 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Test your installation using 
```

.. code-block:: shell

    ffmpeg -h

> Install ffmpeg on OSX
> +++++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install ``ffmpeg`` on OS X
++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```

> - ffmpeg can be installed on OSX by brew

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``ffmpeg`` can be installed on OS X using ``homebrew``:
```

Export Your Results
===================
Taichi has some functions that can help you to **export results to images or videos**. This tutorial will tell you how to do that step by step.
Please make sure that your program runs well before reading this tutorial.

Export Images
-------------

> - There are 2 common ways to export the result of your program(presumably a Taichi tensor) to images. The first one working with ti.GUI that it is more friendly to begginers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There are 2 common ways to export the result of your program (presumably a Taichi tensor) to images. The first one working with ti.GUI that it is more friendly to begginers. 
```

- The second approach is to call some built-in functions in Taichi to make things done, which is more flexible and harder.

Export Images by ti.GUI
+++++++++++++++++++++++

> .. note::
>     
>     For beginners and debug purposes, we recommend this first method by ti.GUI!
> 
> - The first method of exporting images is to use **ti.GUI.show()**. It can not only display the result to the screen but also export the result to your specified place.
> - About the format of saved images: **the type of image is fully determined by your suffix**. 
> - Though Taichi now supports exporting to .png, .jpg and .bmp these 3 mainstream formats, we strongly **recommend using .png** which has been tested well at this moment. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For beginners and debug purposes, we recommend this first method by ti.GUI! That is to use **ti.GUI.show(filename)**. It can not only display the result to the screen but also export the result to your specified `filename`.
- Note that **the format of image is fully determined by your suffix**. 
- Though Taichi now supports exporting to .png, .jpg and .bmp these 3 mainstream formats, we strongly **recommend using .png** which has been tested well at this moment. For example:
```

.. code-block:: python
    
    import taichi as ti
    import os
    pixel = ti.var(ti.u8, shape=(512, 512, 3))

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

ti.init()
```

    @ti.kernel
    def paint():

>         for I in ti.grouped(pixel):
>             pixel[I] = ti.random() * 255

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        for i, j, k in pixel:
            pixel[i, j, k] = ti.random() * 255
```
So that user don't confused by  `ti.grouped`, which is an advanced metaprogramming feature.

    iterations = 1000
    gui = ti.GUI("Export Result", res = 512)

> 
>     # set up the images output
>     output_dir = "./results/"
>     if os.path.exists(output_dir) == False:
>         os.makedirs(output_dir)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    # mainloop
    for i in range(iterations):
        paint()
        gui.set_image(pixel)

>         # img_name = os.path.join(output_dir, f"frame_{i}.jpg")   # create filename with suffix jpg
>         # img_name = os.path.join(output_dir, f"frame_{i}.bmp")   # create filename with suffix bmp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>         img_name = os.path.join(output_dir, f"frame_{i}.png")   # create filename with suffix png

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        img_name = f"frame_{i}.png"   # create filename with suffix png
```

>         print("%s recorded in frame %d" % (img_name, i))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        print("Frame %d is recorded in %s" % (i, img_name))
```

.. function:: ti.imwrite(img, filename)

    :parameter img: (Matrix or Expr) the images you want to export
    :parameter filename: (string) filename you want to save

    Please make sure that the input image is a Taichi Matrix or Expr and **it has shape [height, width, compoents] correctly**. For example:
    
    .. code-block:: python

        import taichi as ti
        pixel = ti.var(ti.u8, shape=(512, 512, 3))

        @ti.kernel
        def set_pixel():
            for I in ti.grouped(pixel):
                pixel[I] = ti.random() * 255
        
        set_pixel()
        ti.imwrite(pixel.to_numpy(), f"imwrite_export.png")

.. function:: ti.imread(filename, channels = 0)

    :parameter filename: (string) filename of the image you want to load
    :parameter channels: (int) the number of channels in your specified image, the default value is zero.
    
    This function can load an image from the target filename, return it as a np.ndarray

.. function:: ti.imshow(img, windname)

    :parameter img: (Matrix or Expr) the image you want to show in the GUI
    :parameter windname: (string) the name of GUI window

>     This function will open an instance of ti.GUI and show the input image on the screen.

Reviewer 2: These are not about `export_results`, how about to move these API-reference-styled stuffs to gui.rst and left a link to export_results there? Let's keep focus on `export` instead of `import` here.

Author: Totally Agree.To be honest, I think this part divagate as well.So I plan to expand these descriptions then move all of them to the end of gui.rst.How about it?

Reviewer 2: Sounds not so good to me, gui.rst is mainly for the `ti.GUI`, not for `ti.imshow` and `ffmpeg`.

Author: Ummm, Maybe I havn't get your point clearly now. How would it be better to do with these `ti.imread()` and `ti.imshow()`? Simply Delete them OR moving them to somewhere else? :O

Reviewer 2: Let's move `ti.imread`, `ti.imwrite`, `ti.imshow` to gui.rst, and then add a link to `ti.imwrite` in export_results.rst, wdyt?

    result_dir = "./results"
    video_manger = ti.VideoManager(output_dir=result_dir, framerate=24, automatic_build=False)

    for i in range(50):
        paint()

        pixel_img = pixel.to_numpy()
        video_manger.write_frame(pixel_img)
        print("\rframe %d/%d" % (i, 50), end='')

    video_manger.make_video(gif = True, mp4 = True)
    print("mp4 video saved to %s" % video_manger.get_output_filename(".mp4"))
    print("gif video saved to %s" % video_manger.get_output_filename(".gif"))
    
Running these codes above, you can find the resulting video in "./results/" folder :)

Install ffmpeg
--------------

Install ffmpeg on Windows
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

- Download the ffmpeg archive(named ffmpeg-2020xxx.zip) from `ffmpeg <https://ffmpeg.org/download.html>`_

- unzip this archive to where you would like, such as "D:/YOUR_FFMPEG_FOLDER"

- IMPORTANT: **add "D:/YOUR_FFMPEG_FOLDER/bin" to the environment variables**

- open the Windows CLI and type this line of code below to test the installation. The version info should be output if ffmpeg is set up properly.

.. code-block:: shell

    FFmpeg -version

Install FFmpeg on Linux
+++++++++++++++++++++++

> - Most Linux distribution came with Linux natively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Most Linux distribution came with ``ffmpeg`` natively.
```

- Install ffmpeg on Ubuntu

.. code-block:: shell

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install ffmpeg

- Install ffmpeg on CenteOS and RHEL

.. code-block:: shell

    sudo yum install ffmpeg ffmpeg-devel

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- Install ffmpeg on Arch Linux:

.. code-block: shell

    sudo pacman -S ffmpeg

```
